---
title: Pallet Phases
layout: doc
permalink: /doc/reference/phases
section: documentation
subsection: reference
summary: Pallet Phases
---

A phase specifies a sequence of crates to be executed.  A phase can be defined
as part of a [server-spec](/doc/reference/node-types), or inline in a
[`configure` or `lift` invocation](/doc/reference/operations), using
the `phase-fn` macro.

A phase is a function taking a single `session` argument, which it modifies and
returns.  The `session` argument is passed to crate functions, which also
return the `session`.

## `phase` macro

The `phase` macro is a convenience for defining a phase.  In the following
example, the two server-spec definitions are equivalent. The `phase`
macro also adds some error checking of the session map.

{% highlight clojure %}
(require 'pallet.core)
(require 'pallet.phase)
(require 'pallet.action.package)

(pallet.core/server-spec
  :phases
    {:configure
       (pallet.phase/phase-fn
         (pallet.action.package/package "curl"))})

(pallet.core/server-spec
  :phases
    {:configure
       (fn [session]
         (->
           session
           (pallet.action.package/package "curl")))})
{% endhighlight %}

## :bootstrap

The `:bootstrap` phase is applied whenever pallet starts a new node.

## :settings

The `:settings` phase is applied first, before any other phase. This phase is
intended to provide configuration settings only, and to have no side-effects on
the nodes.

## :configure

The `:configue` phase is applied by default by both the `converge` and the
`lift` commands.

## Inline phase

The :phase keyword in `lift` and `converge` can be used to carry out ad-hoc
configuration or administration tasks. In this example we install `curl` on all
running `mytag` nodes.

{% highlight clojure %}
  (require 'pallet.core)
  (require 'pallet.compute)
  (require 'pallet.configure)
  (require 'pallet.phase)
  (require 'pallet.action.package)

  (pallet.core/lift
    (pallet.core/group-spec "mytag")
    :phase (pallet.phase/phase-fn (pallet.action.package/package "curl"))
    :compute (pallet.configure/compute-service))
{% endhighlight %}
