---
title: resolv
layout: doc
permalink: /doc/reference/resolv
section: documentation
subsection: crates
summary: Install and configure resolv
---
Install and configure resolv

- [Source repository](https://github.com/pallet/resolv-crate "GitHub Repository for crate")
- [Issues](https://github.com/pallet/resolv-crate/issues "GitHub Issues for crate")

## Release notes

- Update crates for pallet 0.6.3


### pallet-crates-0.5.0


### pallet-crates-0.4.4


### pallet-crates-0.4.3

- Update for 0.5.0-SNAPSHOT
  Change pallet.resource.\* to pallet.action.\*. Change stevedore calls to
  script functions to use unquote and the pallet.script.lib namespace. 
  Change request to session.  Change build-resources to build-actions.


### pallet-crates-0.4.2


### pallet-crates-0.4.1


### pallet-crates-0.4.0


### pallet-crates-0.4.0-beta-1

- working node-list compute service

- Add retrieval of files from node. Refactor sending of files to remove
  \*file-transfers\*. Add ssh-key/record-public-key to retrieve a users
  public key from a remote node.

- Refactoring to a more functional implementation

- Made converge run phase by phase, instead of node by node.  Added
  pre-phase. Removed :reload-all from tests to avoid deftype problems.

- removed 1.1 compat.  fixed compile errors from id/providerId changes

- Added target/\*all-nodes\* and target/\*target-nodes\*.  Made target vars
  uninitialised. Tidied mock.

- unification of defresource & defcomponent, elimination of atom usage in
  general, formalized sub-phase / execution type

- clojure 1.1 / 1.2 compatibility modifications

- clojure 1.1 / 1.2 compatibility modifications

- Added defnode, lift and configuration phases. Adds declaritive
  configuration definiton.

- minor improvements, and doc fixes

- fixed bug from jclouds api change. added resources and crates

- cleanup of line endings and tests

- added package resource, tests, switched to clj-ssh, and more

